- Report Highlights

IBM is in transformation and expects clients to do the same. This idea is called "Chaptr 2".
- Clients will start migrating workloads to cloud, use AI in decision making
- Cognitive Enterprise = Data (fuel) + AI insight + Hybrid cloud (quick change)

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
Please refer to IBM’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the
SEC on February 25, 2020, for Item 1A. entitled “Risk Factors.”
We create value for clients by providing integrated solutions
and products that leverage: data, information technology, deep
expertise in industries and business processes, with trust and
security and a broad ecosystem of partners and alliances. IBM
solutions typically create value by enabling new capabilities for
clients that transform their businesses and help them engage
with their customers and employees in new ways. These solutions
draw from an industry-leading portfolio of consulting and IT
implementation services, cloud, digital and cognitive offerings,
and enterprise systems and software which are all bolstered by
one of the world’s leading research organizations. 

IBM Strategy
IBM’s strategy begins with our clients. IBM is distinguished as
being first and foremost an Enterprise company, serving the
world’s leaders in their industries.
Serving enterprises requires a distinct set of skills as our clients
entrust us with building, integrating and running the world’s
mission-critical systems. These are systems that cannot fail,
systems that require the highest levels of privacy and security.
They are built with our software and on our systems, designed
and managed by IBM services. For example, we manage
approximately ninety percent of the credit card transactions
and half of the world’s wireless connections. We do this with an
unparalleled commitment to our clients’ data security.
We are unique in bringing innovative technology and industry
expertise on a foundation of trust and security as an integrated
proposition to our clients. This integrated proposition allows us
to deliver business impact that matters to our clients, impact that
requires bringing together technologies such as hybrid cloud, data
and AI insight with workflow and advanced industry skills. This
integrated proposition helps our clients transform themselves
from traditional businesses to what we call Cognitive Enterprises.

Cloud & Cognitive Software Capabilities
Cognitive Applications: includes software that address vertical and
domain-specific solutions, increasingly infused with AI, enabled
by IBM’s Watson technology. Application areas such as health,
financial services, Internet of Things (IoT) solutions, weather, and
security software and services are among the offerings.
Cloud & Data Platforms: includes the company’s distributed
middleware and data platform software, including Red Hat, which
enables the operation of clients’ hybrid multi-cloud environments,
whether on-premise or in public and private clouds. It also
includes product areas such as Cloud Paks, WebSphere
distributed, analytics platform software such as DB2 distributed,
information integration, and enterprise content management, as
well as IoT, Blockchain and AI/Watson platforms.
As clients increasingly move more of their mission-critical
workloads to the cloud, their multi-cloud environments will
be based on a foundation of Linux, with Kubernetes opensource software to deploy, manage and scale container-based
applications. Red Hat, which provides the leading Linux operating
system—Red Hat Enterprise Linux—and the leading hybrid
cloud platform—Red Hat OpenShift—is at the center of this
transformational shift among clients

Transaction Processing Platforms: the software that supports
client mission critical on-premise workloads in industries such as
banking, airlines and retail. This includes transaction processing
software such as Customer Information Control System and
storage software, as well as the analytics and integration
software running on IBM operating systems (e.g., DB2 and
WebSphere running on z/OS).

Investments since 2012
- Total of $120 billion to transform strategy
- Returned $97 billion to shareholders
- $45 billion in R&D, cloud, AI, blockchain, and quantum computing
- Patent leadership (9,262 in 2019)
- Red Hat was the biggest investment in IBM history
-- Red Hat allows clients to build applications in Cloud and access it from anywhere
-- IBM values hybrid cloud at $1.2 trillion

Portfolio
- Divestures of businesses with ~ $10 billion revenue (not to be included in chapter 2)
--- Divestures include semiconductor manufacturing, X86 servers
- Cloud: In 2013, cloud was 4% of revenue. Now it is 27%. BNP paribas is a client.
- AI/Data: 30,000 + client engagements across 20 different industries. Woodside Energy, Vodafone, Yara are clients.
- Security: IBM is used by 95% of Fortune 500 for security purposes.
- Blockchain: Global leader in enterprise blockchain solutions
- IBM Quantum Computing: Has a fleet of 15 advanced quantum computers. It introduced the largest system available 
for commercial purposes (53 qubit)

Progress
- CO2 reduction of 40% by 2025 as far as IBM's consumption goes
- PET recycling through volatile catalyst (volcat)

Transformation of Banks
From private server/clouds to public cloud (IBM) + integration of AI
BNP Paribas and State Bank of India are examples

Airlines
- Cloud for data storage and AI for price optimization and rebooking
- IBM Travel Platform helps airlines with scheduling services (maintenance)
- Weather Company predicts turbulence which can help to optimize routes

AI
- Infrastructure is an area for use of machine learning using predictive and prescriptive modeling to predict infrastructure failures
- AI is used by Woodside Energy (NG). The vision is to develop an intelligent plant with optimized workflows and maintenance. 

Quantum Computing
- Daimler AG - Designing new batteries with new materials to provide higher performance
- JP Morgan Chase - Trading and pricing purposes

Blockchain 
- Maersk and IBM developed a blockchain platform which is on pace to track 60% of world's ocean cargo

Weather Company
- High resolution forecast (3 km) will help Yara, a Norwegian Farming company


1) On Red Hat Acqusition (Management Highlights - Pg 26)
On July 9, 2019, IBM acquired 100 percent of the
outstanding shares of Red Hat, Inc. (Red Hat). Red Hat is
reported within the Cloud & Cognitive Software segment, in
Cloud & Data Platforms. The consolidated financial results
at and as of the year ended December 31, 2019 reflect the
impacts of the acquisition on IBM; including: recognition of
goodwill, intangible assets and related amortization and
deferred tax liabilities, along with other purchase accounting
adjustments including a deferred revenue fair value
adjustment.

2) Management Discussion (Pg 28)
We continued to bring new innovations to the market, launching the
new z15, delivering new high-end storage and modernizing and
containerizing our software portfolio. We have expanded our
services offerings and skills for the cloud journey and the reach
of our Watson/AI offerings. We also divested select businesses
as we continue to prioritize our investments and optimize our
portfolio for this next chapter in cloud.

- Revenue decreased 3.1% YOY
- Exluding divested businesses, revenue increased 0.2% 
- Cloud and Cognitive area increased 4.5 and 6% respectively

From a geographic perspective, Americas revenue declined
1.9 percent year to year as reported (1 percent adjusted for
currency), but grew 1 percent excluding divested businesses
and adjusted for currency. Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA)
decreased 4.1 percent (flat adjusted for currency), but grew 1
percent excluding divested businesses and adjusted for currency.
Asia Pacific declined 4.0 percent year to year as reported
(3 percent adjusted for currency) and 2 percent excluding
divested businesses and adjusted for currency.

3) Gross Margin increase ~ 1%
The consolidated gross margin of 47.3 percent increased 0.9
points year to year, and the operating (non-GAAP) gross margin
of 48.0 percent increased 1.1 points versus the prior year. The
improved margins in 2019 reflect the actions we have taken to
focus on higher value and portfolio optimization while also driving
productivity and operational efficiency. 